---
layout: post
title: Math 104 Notes
published: true
---

<script src='https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.5/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML' async></script>
<script type="text/x-mathjax-config">
MathJax.Hub.Config({
tex2jax: {inlineMath: [['$','$'], ['\\(','\\)']]}
});
</script>

#### Spring 2020
Professor: Mariusz Wodjzicki

Scribe: Raymond Feng

## Lecture 1, 1/21/2020

$p \in \mathbb{Q}:$ the set of rational numbers. $p$ belongs to $\mathbb{Q}$. $p=\frac{m}{n}$. $\frac{m'}{n'}$, $m,n$ are integers. $\mathbb{Z}, n \neq 0$. $\mathbb{Z} \subseteq \mathbb{Q}$ Equality of fractions. 
- $\frac{m}{n}=\frac{m'}{n'}$. relation: $\frac{m}{n} \sim \frac{m'}{n'}$. $mn'=nm'$. Reflextivity of the relation. 
- $\frac{m}{n} \sim \frac{m'}{n'}$, then, $\frac{m'}{n'} \sim \frac{m}{n}$ Symmetry
- $\frac{m}{n} \sim \frac{m'}{n'} \sim \frac{m''}{n''} \Rightarrow mn'=nm',m'n'' =n'm''$ to show this, do $(mn')n''=(nm')n''$. This is true by the first equality. Use the associativity of multiplication to get $m(n'n'')=n(m'n'')$

To formally define rational numbers, do: $F:=\mathbb{Z}x\mathbb{Z}=\frac{m}{n} m \in \mathbb{Z}, n \in \mathbb{Z}$

$Z_{*}:= \\{ n \in \mathbb{Z} n \neq 0 \\}$

$\mathbb{Q}:=F/n= \\{c \in \mathcal{P}(F)  c \text{ is an equivalent class of rel.} \sim \\} $
$p=\frac{m}{n}$, this means that $p$ is in the equivalence class of the fraction. 
$m' \vert n'$ means that $m'$ divides $n'$ if there exists $d \in \mathbb{Z}$ such that $n'=dm'$
On the set $\mathbb{Z}_{>0}$: divisibility is an *order* relation. 

#### Assigned reading
Rudin, first section, then to the point of getting to *ordered sets*. 

$A=\\{p \in \mathbb{Q}, p^2 \leq 2\\}=\\{p \in \mathbb{Q}, p^2 < 2\\}$
$B=\\{p \in \mathbb{Q}, 2 \leq p^2\\}=\\{p \in \mathbb{Q}, 2 < p^2\\}$

- Homework is due weekly:20%
- 1st midterm:18%
- 2nd midterm:22%
- Final: 40%

## Lecture 2, 1/23/2020 

Definition: A set $S$ equipped with a binary relation, $\sim$, satisfies the following three properties:
- Reflexivity: for any element $s \in S, s \sim s$. 
- Weak antisymmetry: for any $t \in S$, if $s \sim t$ and $t \sim s$, then $s=t$. 
- Transitivity: $s,t,u \in s$, if $s \sim t$, and $t \sim u$, then $s \sim u$. 
Is called an ordered set. 

Compact form: 
- (R): $\forall x \in S, s \sim s$
- (WA): $\forall s,t \in S, s \sim t \land t \sim s \Rightarrow s=t$
- (T): $\forall s,t,u \in S, s \sim t \land t \sim u \Rightarrow s \sim u$

Aside: The negation of $s \Rightarrow t$ is $s \land \neg t$. Talking about the philosophy of mathematical notation. 

If you look at all the relations on a set, then there is something special about the relationship between order relations and the equivalence relation. Mentioned partially ordered set. 

### What is a partially ordered set?
Partially ordered set means that it is not linearly ordered. 

Standard Notation: 
- $s \preceq t$, $s$ less or equal than $t$. 
- $s \sim t$. 

Alternative property: $\forall s,t \in S (s \preceq t \lor t \preceq s)$
Linearly ordered, totally ordered. 

Many of the mathematical structures are possible due to partially ordered sets. Linearly ordered structures are very rare. God given ones are even rarer. Real lines are linearly ordered sets. Non sharp orders? 

Aside: Rudin's student solved a big problem. Continuum hypothesis. A problem in set theory and logic. A shock to a lot of mathematicians. Conclusion: Rudin has very good credentials. 

Suppose that someone gives you an order relation. Then you can immediately define a new order relation. Given an order relation $\preceq$, let $\prec$ be defined as follows: $s \preceq$ and $s \neq t$. If $\preceq$ is an order relation, then $\prec$ satisfies transitivity, and weak antisymmetry becomes strict symmetry. 

$s \preceq t \equiv s \prec t \lor s=t$

Thus, the alternative property becomes: $\forall s,t \in S (s \prec t \lor s=t \lor t \preceq s \lor t=s)$. However the last equality is redundant. This is what is known as the *Trichotomy law*. You can make this law stronger by modifying it to become: $\forall s,t \in S$, *exactly* one of the $s \prec t, t \prec s, s=t$ is true. 

Aside: Mind exposed to to much rubbish, SNR is too low. But Rudin is elegant and has high SNR. 

### Need to know how to transfer non-sharp order to sharp order, and vice versa. 

Suppose a sharp order relation $\prec$ is given on a set $S$. Define $\preceq$ by $s \preceq t$ if $s \prec t \lor s=t$ 

### Possible midterm problem: If this relation is sharp, then this other relation satisfies the three axioms of non-sharp. 

Sharp linear orders will satisfy Trichotomy law, non-sharp orders will satisfy Alternative property. From now on, know the relationship between sharp ($\prec$) and non-sharp ($\preceq$) orders. 

Followup: $S$ is equipped with a fixed order relation. Suppose $E \subseteq S$. $s \in S$ is an upper bound/lower bound for $E$ if for $\forall e \in E, e \preceq s$ or $\forall e \in E, s \preceq e$ respectively. 

$\mathcal{U}E=\\{s \in S \vert \forall e \in E, e \preceq s\\}$
$\mathcal{L}E=\\{s \in S \vert \forall e \in E, s \preceq e\\}$

Figure: light cone pyramid looking thing. $\\{t \in S \vert t \preceq s\\}=\langle s \]$. $E \subseteq \langle s \]$. $\mathcal{L}\\{s\\}$. $s \in \mathcal{U}E$. 

Suppose that $E$ has the greatest element $m \in E$. $\forall e \in E$, for ever $m \preceq s, e \preceq s$ for all $e \in E$. In this case $\mathcal{U}E=\\{ t \in S \vert m \preceq t \\} = \[ m \rangle$

The situation when $\mathcal{U}E$ is an upper interval $\[ \beta \rangle$ is very important. The "lower end" of $\mathcal{U}E$, is referred to as the *supremum* of $E$, or, the least upper bound for $E$. 

Dually, when $\mathcal{L}E$ is a lower interval $\langle \alpha \]$ is equally important. The upper end of $\mathcal{L}E$ is referred to as the infimum of $E$. 

### Note: he keeps mentioning real lines for some reason. 

A couple of very simple observations. $E \subseteq F \Rightarrow \mathcal{U}F \subseteq \mathcal{U}E \Rightarrow \mathcal{LU}E \subseteq \mathcal{LU}F$. $E \subseteq \mathcal{LU}E$. $E \subseteq \mathcal{UL}E$ 

"Get ready for a surprise". $\mathcal{ULU}E \subseteq \mathcal{U}E$. $\mathcal{U}E \subseteq \mathcal{ULU}E$

The punchline: $\mathcal{U}E = \mathcal{ULU}E$, and $\mathcal{L}E=\mathcal{LUL}E$. Closure...

$\mathcal{U}(\mathcal{LU}E)=\mathcal{U}(\langle \alpha \])=\[ \alpha \rangle$. Finishing analogy. That's why he's a mathematician. He likes building technology of the mind. Anybody can use a plane, but some like to build it. 

Assigned reading: Read to the end of the complex numbers. Definition of a field. Ordered field means that any number is comparable to zero. 

Homework assignment #1: From 1st chapter, exercises 1-5, problem 6 parts a and b. Due in one week. 

## HW1
1.1 If $r$ is rational $(r \neq 0)$ and $x$ is irrational, prove that $r+x$ and $rx$ are irrational. 

1.2 Prove that there is no rational number whose square is 12. 

1.3 Prove proposition 1.15
- Proposition 1.15: The axioms for multiplication imply the following statements. 
	* (a) If $x \neq 0$ and $xy=xz$, then $y=z$
	* (b) If $x \neq 0$ and $xy=x$, then $y=1$
	* (c) If $x \neq 0$ and $xy=1$, then $y = \frac{1}{x}$
	* (d) If $x \neq 0$, then $\frac{1}{\frac{1}{x}}=x$

1.4 Let $E$ be a nonempty subset of an ordered set; suppose $\alpha$ is a lower bound of $E$ and $\beta$ is an upper bound of $E$. Prove that $\alpha \leq \beta$

1.5 Let $A$ be a nonempty set of real numbers which is bounded below. Let $-A$ be the set of all numbers $-x$, where $x \in A$. Prove that $\inf{A} = - \sup{-A}$. 

1.6 Fix $b > 1$. 

## Lecture 3: 1/28/20
- Ordered fields. Recall that a *field* in algebra is an algebraic structure consisting of a set, say, F, equipped with 2 operations. The first one is referred to as *addition*, the second one is referred to as *multiplcation*. 
	* $F,F \Rightarrow (\text{addition and multiplication}) F$
	* $x,y \Rightarrow (\text{addition}) x+y$
	* $x,y \Rightarrow (\text{multiplication}) xy$
- Both multiplication and addition are associative. 
	* $x+y+z=x+(y+z)=(x+y)+z$. 
	* Note that the individual variables are not getting permuted. 
	* It matters which variable comes first. We are not assuming that $x+y=y+x$. 
- $(x,y,z)=(x+y,z)=(x+y)+z=(x,y,z)=(x,y+z)=x+(y+z)$. 
	* This is defined as an associative operation on the abstract set $F$. 
	* This is *already* a very powerful structure. 
	* Terminology: A set equipped with an associative, binary operation is called a (half)*semigroup*. Groups were already invented in the 1870s. Associativity is the most important property of an operation. 
- Theory of Semigroups
	* Present anywhere we encounter evolution (in time). 
	* $S$: a certain system. Maybe a hybrid system. 
	* $S_t$ is the state of the system at time $t$. Then $S_0$ will be your initial state. 
	* $S_0 \rightarrow (H_t) S_t \rightarrow (H_s) S_{s+t}$.
	* Then: $S_0 \rightarrow (H_{s+t}=H_s \dot H_t \forall s,t \geq 0) S_{s+t}$
	* $H_0$ is the identity operator. 
	* $H$ is a semigroup operator.  
- $(X, \text{structure of a certain kind})$
	* The structure must be prescribed and fixed. 
- $(X, \text{structure of a certain kind}) \rightarrow (\text{interaction, from-to}) (X',S')$. 
	* very often just a function from $X$ to $X'$
	* $X$ and $X'$ are the *underlying sets* of the structures.
	* Compatible with the structures
- $(X, \text{binary operation})$ and $(X', \text{binary operation}')$
	* $X \rightarrow (f) X'$ such that $x,y \rightarrow f(x),f(y)$
- Def: A function between the underlying sets of semigroups is a *homomorphism* if the graphic on the board holds. 
	* Much of this course is the theory of metric spaces
	* Metric spaces are a structure
	* A set equipped with a distance function
	* Isometries strict, less strict is continuous mappings, open mappings. 
	* Study this on your own or in another class. This was a motivation
- (X,\dot (\text{binary operation})). If there exists a 2-sided "identity" (element) sometimes called a "neutral element"
	* Denote such an element as $e$. 
	* $\forall x \in X, xe=ex=x$
- If an identity exists, it is unique. 
	* Suppose $e'$ is another identity. 
	* Indeed $e'=ee'=e$. We get this because e is a left identity and $e'$ is a right identity. 
- Take any set $X$, consider the function of two variables
	* $x,y \rightarrow x$
	* Thus $xy=x$ for ever $x,y \in X$
	* Drops the second item. 
- An identity element will be *the* identity element. 
	* Very important type of structure called a *monoid*
- Dfn: A semigroup with the identity element is called a *monoid*. 
- Dfn: $X$ be a given element in a *monoid*, there exists an element $y \in X$ s.t. $xy=e=yx$, we say that $x$ is invertible. 
- For the *unique* inverse of $x$, $y=x^{-1}$. This does not mean that we have powers! This is simply notation. 
- In additive notation: $-x$. $x,y \rightarrow x+y$. 
- If you have right inverse and left inverse, they are the same, provided that my operation is associative. 
- Given $x \in X$, suppose $xy=e=xy'$
	* $(yx)y'=(\text{associative})y(xy')$
	* $ey'=ye \Rightarrow y'=y$
- $(X,\dot)$ is a monoid. 
	* $X^{\*} \subset X$ are the invertible elements. 
	* Closed with respect to multiplication
	* $x,y \in X^{\*}$
	* $x(yy^{-1})x^{-1}=xex^{-1}=xx^{-1}=e$
	* $(xy)^{-1}=x^{-1}y^{-1}$
- If $X=X^{\*}$, we say that $(X,\dot)$ is a *group*.  
- $(X,+,\dot)$ A set, addition, and multiplication
	* Suppose that $(X,+)$ is a group, with commutative operation, its identity is defined 0, and is referred as the *zero* element. 
	* $(X,\dot)$, a monoid, its identity is denoted 1, and is referred to as the identity element. 
	* $0+x=x=x+0, 1x=x=x1$
	* The whole point of the two operations multiplication and addition is that...
- Suppose that you have two additively written semigroups. 
	* $(X,+) \rightarrow (f) (X',+')$ Is called homomorphism. 
	* if $f(x+y)=f(x)+'f(y)$. We call such functions "additive"
- If we have a second operation
	* $(X,+,\dot) \rightarrow (f) (X',+',\dot')$
	* $x+y,z \rightarrow (x+y)z$. This is called the right distributative property. 
	* $x,y \rightarrow xy$. Multiplication is assumed to be additive in *each* argument. 
- Additivity conditions
	* (1) For 1st argument $(x+y)z=xz+yz$
	* (2) 2nd argument
	* We are essentially freezing $z$. 
- Mult by $z$ on the right. Is additive in all of $X$. 
	* Mult by $z$ on the left is additive for all $z \in X$
	* $X \rightarrow X$
	* $x \rightarrow xz \leftrightarrow (x+y)z=xz+yz$
	* $x \rightarrow zx \leftrightarrow z(x+y)=zx+zy$
- $0x=0=x0$ for every $x \in X$. In particular, 0 cannot be invertible, or else $0=1$. 
	* If $0=1$, then $x=1x=0x=0$
	* If $X \text{set complement} \\{0\\}$ is closed under multiplication. 
- Example: $x=\mu_2{\mathbb{Z}}$
- A ring is very important, mobile phones and stuff. 
- A ring is a group...?
	* This structure $(X,+,\dot)$ has a division ring, then it is a field. 

## HW1 

1.1 *Prove that if $r$ is rational and $r \neq 0$ and $x$ is irrational, then $rx$ and $r+x$ is irrational.* 
- Suppose the oppposite, suppose $rx$ was rational, then because $\mathbb{Q}$ is closed under multiplication, we would have taht $r^{-1}rx=x$ is also rational, which is a contradiction. Furthermore, assume that $r+x$ is rational. Because $\mathbb{Q}$ is closed under addition, then that means that $r+x+(-r)=x$ must also be rational, which is a contradiction. 

1.2 *Prove that there is no rational number whose square is 12.* 
- $\sqrt{12}=2\sqrt{3}$. So then you just need to show that $\sqrt{3}$ is irrational. Suppose the contrary. Suppose that there is a $r^2=\frac{a^2}{b^2}=3$, where $a$ and $b$ are relatively prime. Then $a^2=3b^2$. Because $a^2$ is divisible by 3, $a$ is also divisible by 3, and can be written as $a=3k$. Substituting this back in, we get $9k^2=3b^2 \Rightarrow 3k^2=b^2$. This means that $b$ is also divisible by 3. This contradicts the assumption that $a$ and $b$ have no common factor. 

1.3 *Prove the following statements from Proposition 1.15: (a) If $x \neq 0$*
- (a) We know that the multiplicative inverse $\frac{1}{x}$ exists, and so multiplying on both sides by this inverse we have $\frac{1}{x}(xy)=\frac{1}{x}(xz)=(\frac{1}{x}x)y=(\frac{1}{x}x)z=1y=1z=y=z$. 
- (b) You can apply (a) with $z=1$ to get this result
- (c) You can apply (a) with $x=\frac{1}{x}$ to get this result
- (d) Set the variables in (a) to be $x \leftarrow \frac{1}{x}$, $y \leftarrow \frac{1}{\frac{1}{x}}$, $z \leftarrow x$.

1.4 *Let $E$ be a nonempty subset of an ordered set; suppose $\alpha$ is a lower bound of $E$, and $\beta$ is an upper bound of $E$. Prove that $\alpha \leq \beta$.* 
- By the definition of GLB and LLB, we know that for some element $\forall x \in E, \alpha \leq x \leq \beta$. Then, by the definition of an ordered set, either $\alpha < \beta$, or $\alpha = x = \beta$.

1.5 *Let $A$ be a nonempty set of real numbers which is bounded below. Let $-A$ be the set of all numbers $-x$, where $x \in A$. Prove that $\inf A = - \sup{-A}$*. 
- Suppose $\alpha = -\sup{-A}$. We want to show that $\forall x \in A, \alpha \leq x$ and $\beta \text{ is lower bound of } A \Rightarrow \alpha \geq \beta$. To prove that $\alpha$ is a lower bound, $x \in A \Rightarrow -x \in -A \Rightarrow -x \leq \sup{-A} \Rightarrow x \geq -\sup{-A} \Rightarrow x \geq \alpha$. To show that $\alpha$ is the greatest lower bound, i.e. $\forall x \in A, \beta \leq x \Rightarrow \forall x \in A, -\beta \geq -x$. This means that $-\beta$ is an upper bound of $-A$. Thus $-\beta \geq \sup{-A} \Rightarrow \beta \leq -\sup{-A}$. So $-\sup{-A}$ is the GLB of $A$. 

1.6 *Fix $b > 1$. (a) If $m,n,p,q$ are integers, $n>0,q>0,$ and $r=\frac{m}{n}=\frac{p}{q}$, prove that $(b^m)^{\frac{1}{n}}=(b^p)^{\frac{1}{q}}$. (b) Prove that $b^{r+s}=b^rb^s$ if $r,s$ are rational.* 
- To do (a), define $a=mq=pn$. Then, we show that taking both of these values to the $nq$-th power, we will get $((b^m)^{\frac{1}{n}})^{nq}=((b^p)^{\frac{1}{q}})^{nq} \Leftrightarrow (b^m)^q=(b^p)^n \Leftrightarrow b^a=b^a$. We have reached a true statement, meaning that the first statement that we started from must've been true. Because $(b^m)^{\frac{1}{n}}$ and $(b^p)^{\frac{1}{q}}$ are both positive, we know that if they become equivalent when taken to the $a$th power, then they themselves are equivalent. 
- For (b), assume that $r=\frac{a}{b}$ and $s=\frac{c}{d}$. Then adding them we get $r+s=\frac{ad+cb}{bd}$. Then, replacing this into our expression we get: $b^{\frac{ab+cd}{bd}}=(b^{ab}b^{cd})^{\frac{1}{bd}}=b^{\frac{ab}{bd}}b^{\frac{cd}{bd}}=b^rb^s$.

## Lecture 4: 1/30/2020

- Ordered fields: A field, say $F$, equipped with a *linear* order compatible with *the* operations is called an *ordered field*. 
	* Compatibility conditions: 
		- Addition: For every element $a \in F$ adding $a$ preserves the order. For any two elements $x,y \in F$, if $x < y \Rightarrow x + a < y + a$.
		- Warning: In an ordered set, say $S$, we can think of the ordering relation as a sharp order, or non-sharp order. $\prec \leftrightarrow \preceq$. We have a faithful translation. Sharp is never reflexive, non-sharp is always reflexive. 
			* $S(\prec) \rightarrow(f) S'(\preceq)$. If $f$ respects the sharp ordering, i.e. $\forall s,t \in S$, (if $s < t$, then $f(s) <' f(t))$. 
			* $\forall s,t \in S, s < t \Rightarrow f(s) <' f(t)$. 
			* The truth value of this expression is...unknown?
			* (There exists) $\exists s,t \in S (s < t \Rightarrow f(s) <' f(t))$
- $(X, d) \leftrightarrow (X',d')$ with $X,X'$ are sets. 
	* $d:X,X' \rightarrow [0,\infty)$, the distance function
	* The distance function is an abstract function that must satisfy the following properties
		- $\forall x,y,z \in X, d(x,z) \leq d(x,y) + d(y,z)$ The most fundamental principle, the triangle inequality. Wodzicki thinks it's the most fundamental, but Rudin and others will usually list this last. 
	* Symmetry: $\forall x,y \in X, d(x,y)=d(y,x)$, apparently...not that important?
	* Nondegeneracy: $\forall x,y \in X (d(x,y)=0 \Leftrightarrow x=y)$
	* This is the definition of a metric space.
- $X=\mathbb{R}^2$. $x=(x_1,x_2)^T, y=(y_1,y_2)^T$. $d_m(x,y)=\|x_1-y_1\|+\|x_2-y_2\|$. This is the Manhattan distance. 
- $d_e(x,y)=\sqrt{\|x_1-y_1\|^2+\|x_2-y_2\|^2}$
- In general $d_{L_p}(x,y)=(\|x_1-y_1\|^p+\|x_2-y_2\|^p)^{\frac{1}{p}}$
- Manhattan is when $p=1$, Euclidean is when $p=2$. 
- $F$ is either $\mathbb{R}$ or $\mathbb{C}$. $V=\mathbb{F}^n$. $d_{L_p}(x,y)=(\sum\|x_i-y_i\|^p)^{\frac{1}{p}}$. 
- In this case, the Triangle Inequality is the famous classical inequality. It is not easy to prove. This is called Holder's Inequality. 
- The vector space of continuous $F$ ordered functions on the interval $V=C([a,b],F)$. 
	* Weird diagram on board. Distance between two functions. The functions don't even have to be continuous. 
	* $d_{L_p}(f,g)=(\int_a^b \|f(x)-g(x)\|^p dx)^{\frac{1}{p}}$. All you need to know is that $\|f(x)-g(x)\|^p$ is integrable. Ensuring that $f$ and $g$ are continuous gives you this. 
	* What does the Riemann Integral have to do with all of this? Cauchy could not prove that the every continuous function is Riemann Integrable. 
	* Lebesgue integrable $\Rightarrow$ Riemann Integrable, Math 105, more demanding, Honors class flavor. 
	* $L_p([a,b],F)$. Linear algebra in infinite funcion spaces is called functional analysis. 
	* This course was supposed to lead you to...something something metric
- Next Homework Assignment: Chapter 1, Problem 6cd, 7, 8, 9, 10 is optional
- First midterm every four five weeks?
- Metric spaces, possibly the number one definition in the whole course
	* Suppose you have insert the drawing of the two sets...
- Dfn: We say that the function $f: X \rightarrow X'$ between metric spaces, is continuous at $x \in X$ if $\forall \epsilon > 0 \exists \delta > 0 \forall y \in X (d(x,y) < \delta \Rightarrow d'(f(x),f(y)) < \epsilon)$. 
	* This is the $\epsilon$-$\delta$ "epsilon-delta" definition of continuity. 
	* This will be a great quiz problem. 
	* Note that this statement does not commute. 
	* The negation of this statement is:
	* $\exists \epsilon > 0 \forall \delta > 0 \exists y \in X (d(x,y) < \delta \land d'(f(x),f(y)) \geq \epsilon)$
	* Why $\epsilon$ and why $\delta$? $\epsilon$ means error, and $\delta$ is the next letter in the alphabet. 
- Midterm: Chapter 1, portions of Chapter 2. 
- Reading: Until the end of compact sets. 
