---
layout: post
title: CS168 Notes
published: true
---

- End host must implement all layers
	* Network interface cards talk to the operating system talk to the applications
	* Datalink and physical should go into the network interface card. 
	* Network should go into the operating system
	* Transport also goes into the operating system
	* Application implemented in the application
- How does the operating system know which application to send the packet to?
	- Answer: a port
	- There are physical ports and logical ports
- Sockets and ports
	* Socket: allows application to connect to the networking stack.
- Packet header must hold:
	* Destination host address
	* Destination port
- Application looks at data, NIC/Driver looks at packets, and the network stack is the intermediary in between them. 
- Bits on wire (L1)...
- Switches vs Routers
	* Switches do what routers do but within a single network
	* In the modern day, the line is blurring. 
- Layer encapsulation, multiple layers requre multiple headers. 
- Why is the internet splitting of layers?
- End to end principle
	* Guides the debate about what functionality the network does or doesn't implement. 
- Reliable File Transfer
	* Make each step reliable (requires network to handle reliability)
- Allows steps to be unreliable, but do end-to-end check and try again if necessary (do not assume network is reliable)
- Neither will guarantee reliability, but solution 2 will allow you to avoid false positives. 
- Clarks paper:
	* Network failures should not interfere with endpoint semantics
- Big idea: you are going to assume failures anyways, so no need to guarantee reliability. 
- What is the controversy around the end to end principle?
	* Everyone believes it, but no one knows what it means...
	* Three interpretations of the end to end principle
		- "Only-if-Sufficient": Don't implement a function at the lower levels of the system unless it can be completely implemented at this level
		- "Only-if-Necessary": Don't implement anything in the network that can be implemented correctly by the hosts. Make network layer absolutely minimal. 
		- "Only-if-useful": If hosts can implement functionality correctly, implement it in a lower layer *only* as a performance enhancement.
- The E2E principle guides our discussion, performance and reliability
	* What does E2E ignore?
		- Control, what is in my power to change?
		- There are other stakeholders besides users, such as ISPs
		- "Middleboxes"
- "Dumb" network and "smart" end systems
- "Fate sharing"
	* "A distributed system is one in which the failure of a computer you didn't even know existed can render your own computer unusable.", fate sharing tries to prevent this. 
	* When storing state in a distributed system, colocate it with entites that rely on that state. 
- What is the value of Clark's papers?
	* E2E principle becomes a pithy pillar that we can lean on. 
- David Clark wrote a paper in 1988 that tried to capture why the Internet turned out as it did. What are the goals of the internet?
	* Connect existing networks
		- Pragmatic
		- Successful, narrow waist, IP
	* Robust in the face of failures
	* Support multiple types of delivery services
	* Accomodate a variety of networks
	* Allow distributed management of resources
	* Easy end host attachment
	* Cost effective
		- Hard to say
	* Allow resource accountability
		- Failure, ISPs can't do this
- What priorities would a commercial design have?
	* Accountability/authentication as top goals
	* Probabily focus on high-revenue applciations
- What would the resulting design look like?
	* Much less flexible and general
- What goals are missing from the list?

## Lecture 5: 2/4/2020

- Today is the birthday of Ken Thompson
- Endless number of possible solutions to routing
	* Constrain our discussion to "archetypal internet"
- Packet has:
	* Payload (the actual data)
	* Headers (metadata)
		- Must contain destination address
		- Implies that a host has an address!
		- Or more than one! Different addresses for different layers. Might be connected to multiple networks. 
- What is a router?
	* Switch/router
	* A fully connected network doesn't scale very well, but is extremely fault tolerant. You have low latency and high bandwidth to everyone. 
	* All hosts share the same wire. Scales very well. Bad, not robust. Cutting the cable splits a lot. Everybody is sharing the same link. Very cheap. 
- The challenge
	* "Good" may have many meanings. The basic challenge is the know how to send it next. 
	* Random routing is wasteful
	* Don't just send it to everyone, this is wasteful. 
- Want to adapt to arbitrary topologies
	* Forwarding: when a packet arrives at R2, we are going to foward it. 
		- Forwarding with a table. 
- Forwarding: Looks up packet's destination in table and sends packet to given neighbor. Local. Data plane
- Routing: The algorithm that populates tables for forwarding. Control plane. 
- Getting a little theoretical
	* We can graph paths packets to a destination will take if they follow tables
	* Set of all paths create "directed delivery tree". Must cover every node! 
	* Oriented spanning tree rooted at destination
- Routing state validity
	* Local routing state is table in a single router
	* Global state is collection of tables in all routers
	* Goal of routing protocols: compute valid state
	* Need succincy correctness condition for routing...
- Global routing state is valid if and only if:
	* For each destination...
		- There are no dead ends
		- There are no loops
- Hosts generally do not participate in routing. 
- Focus only on a single destination
	* Ignore all other hosts
	* Ignore all other routing state (why can we do this?)
- For each router, mark outgoing edge with arrow (point at next hop)...
- Bellman-Ford algorithm
- Networks are distributed, asychronous
- Promising algorithm to turn into a routing protocol!
- Distance-Vector Protocols

## Lecture 6: 2/6/2020

- Jack Kilby invented the IC
- Rick Astley's birthday

### Kinds of Routing, Kinds of Networks

- The internet does not work by having a single giant routing protocol
- The internet is a network of networks
	* Best way to route on one may not be best way to route on the other
	* Networks differ!
		- Physical size, number of hosts
- Intradomain routing: within a single network
	* IGP: Interior Gateway Protocols
- Interdomain routing: routing between autonomous systems
	* EGP: Exterior Gateway Protocols
- Least Cost Routing
	* Routes that work, no dead ends, no loops
- Routes that minimize some cost
- Last time: tried to minimize the number of hops. 
- What else might we want to minimize. 
	* Price, propogation delay, distance, unreliability, others
	* But in this class, we can just abstract this away
- Where do these costs come from? Generally, local to router. Router know the costs of attached links. 
- Least cost routes are destination based
- Shortest path = least cost path

### Trivial and Static Routes

- A route to yourself, loopback routes.
- If you only have one neighbor, that is a default route
- Hosts with multiple neighbors usually have one anyway. 
- Static routes are manually entered by the operator. 
	* Route that wants to stay up for a long time
	* Censorship thing...?
	* Debugging
	* Operator wants to accomplish a specific goal. 

### Distance Vector Protocol

- Prototypical is RIP (Routing information protocol)
- Strong relationship to Bellman Ford
- Distance to destination as best path as far as you know. 
- Which neighbor is along the best path
- When you changed your mind about distance
- Routing 
	* Communicate with other routers to determine how to populating tables for forwarding
	* Figuring out best friends by sharing magic number with neighbors
- Forwarding
	* Physically handing the envelope to neighbors
- Serial Bellman-Ford Algorithm
- We don't use Dijkstra's because we need to know everything beforehand. 
	- Bellman is parallel, distributed, and asynchronous. 
- Distributed algorithms
	* Killer is not computational complexity, moreso the communication

## Lecture 7: 2/11/2020

- B-F to D-V, Bellman-Ford to Distance-Vector. 
- Can it handle failed links?
- Evidence of Absence of Routes (Poisoning)
- You are advertising poison routes. Dead routes get processes quickly, as opposed to waiting for timeouts. 
- Besides expired routes, where did we not advertise something?
- Split horizon, we had a route but chose not to advertise. You can advertise a poison route, a reverse poison. 
- Distance-Vector
	* Global computation (it's distributed across all nodes)
	* ...using local data (from just itself and its neighbors)
- Link-State
	* Local computation
	* ...using global data (from all parts of the network)
	* What is this "global data"?
	* Information about the state of links
		- Is the link up?
		- What is the cost of this link
	* Gets the state of all links and the location of all destinations
	* Uses that global information to build full graph
	* Finds paths from itself to every destination on graph
	* Uses the second hop in those paths to populate its forwarding table
	* Each router has the complete topology; can basically do it however it wants!
		- For least-cost routes, this is called Single Source Shortest Path (SSSP)
	* Some obvious algorithm choices
		- BF Alg serial version 
		- Dijkstra's alg
		- BFS
		- Dynamic shortest path algorithms
		- Approsimate shortest path algorithms
		- Parallel SSP algorithms
	* Path that you choose will have to be compatible among routers. 
	* Sharing Info Globally
	* Flooding: When local information changes, send to all neighbors. When you receive info packet from neighbor, send to all other neighbors. Really big problem. What happens when you add a loop to the topology? 
	* Multiple loops, packets multiply exponentially. 
	* Solution: Don't send unless the information is new. Keep a sequence number of updates to tell when you have a new packet. Every router tracks largest sequence number seen from every other router. 
	* How to make flooding reliable?
		- Periodically resend things. 
	* Tell everyone else about any adjacent information. 
	* Convergence delay
	* Using plain non-parallel Dijkstra's algorithm, Dijkstra's will never find a looping path. 
	* Time to detect failure, time to flood link-state information (proportional to network diameter)
	* Timeline for Local Failure
- Learning switches
	* Tables filled in oppotunistically using data packets
	* No "seeding" with static entries required!
	* Very common for routing at the link layer (L2)
	* What happens when we hav ea loop?
	* If routers

## Lecture 8
- Project 1: Distance-Vector, demos and topologies. 
- Learning Switches, Spanning Tree protocol
	* L2 Routing, data packet opportunistically updates the tables
	* The big problem is cycles
	* The link state solution (sequence numbers) doesn't work in this case. 
	* Instead of routers sending things, hosts are sending the sequence numbers. 
	* Data packets don't necessarily have sequence numbers
	* The solution: Disable all links until there are no loops, in other words, a spanning tree. 
- The solution
	* Find least cost paths from every switch to the root. 
	* STP is basically D-V with a single table entry/destination
	* All switches begin by thinking they themselves are the root.  
- Addressing
	* IGP vs. EGP
	* The magic of scaling is mostly about addressing
	* IP Addresses is what makes the internet scalable
	* Leads naturally to a two level hierarchy
	* Address: network.host
	* Interdomain routing protocol only deals with a few number of nodes. 
	* Addresses aren't assigned randomly
	* Border routers are running EGPs
	* Internal routers are routing IGPs
	* This was the early internet
	* 

## Lecture 9 Interdomain Routing
- How are domains connected?
- Interdomain topology, AS graph
- What is a domain (Autonomous Systems)
	- Network under a single administrative control
	- Each AS is assigned a unique AS number (ASN)
- Common kinds of ASes
	- Stub: Merely sends/receives packets on behalf of its directly connected users. Universities, companies
	- Transit: Carries packets on behalf of other ASes. 
- Interdomain topology is shaped by the business relationships bewteen ASes. 
- Three basic kinds of relationships between ASes
	* X can by Y's customer, provider, or peer
	* Customer pays provide, peers don't pay each other
- Goals: valid routes, host addressing key to scaling!
- Multi-home networks break aggregation
- Aggregation and hierarchical addressing allow for scalability
	- you can do one without the other
	- multihoming breaks topology

## Lecture 10: BGP
- Interdomain routing
- BGP extends Distance Vector

## Lecture 11: Designing IP
- Designing the IP header and syntax. 

## Lecture 12: Designing IP and IP Routers
- Steve Deering focused on simplifying IP. Got rid of all fields that were not absolutely necessary. 
	* Expanded addresses
	* Eliminated Checksum
	* Eliminated Fragmentation
	* New options mechanism, "next header"
	* Eliminated header length
	* Added flow label
- Attacks
	* Spoof source address, host cant filter because source address is always changing
	* Bother the spoofed host, the spoofed host is wrongly blamed. 
- Security implications of TOS
